added blog on registration and authentication in django using loginra… (#713)
LoginRadius/engineering-portal: content/registration-and-authentication-in-django-using-loginRadius/index.md

How do we do that?.

You can access your registration and login page with the following URLs.

Registration Page URL:

    https://{APP Name}.hub.loginradius.com/auth.aspx?action=register&return_url={Return URL}

Login Page URL:

    https://{APP_NAME}.hub.loginradius.com/auth.aspx?action=login&return_url={RETURN_URL}

- The APP_NAME parameter is your LoginRadius app name, which we mentioned in the [Get API Credentials](#) section.
- The RETURN_URL parameter refers to the URL where the user should be redirected to upon successful authentication.

So what we will do now is to create links or buttons that users can click to access these URL.
First, let's create a views that will be responsible for displaying our registration and login page.
Edit the *views.py* file of the **radiusApp** application and add the following code:

*radiusApp/views.py*

    from django.shortcuts import render
    
    def register_n_login(request):
        return render(request, 'index.html')

> all this views does is to render a html page as a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this view does is render an HTML page as a response.
```

> Now we need to add the URL pattern for this views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we need to add the URL pattern for this view.
```

In the *urls.py* file of your **radiusApp** application, add the following code:
*radiusApp/urls.py*

    from django.urls import path
    from . import views
    
    urlpatterns = [
        path('', views.register_n_login, name="access"),
    ]

> The `register_n_login` views can now be accessed by a URL. It's time to create a template for our views. But before we do that, let me introduce some basic styling we will use in our application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `register_n_login` view can now be accessed by a URL. It's time to create a template for our views. But before we do that, let me introduce some basic styling we will use in our application.
```

        height:150px;
        display: flex;
        justify-content: space-evenly;
        flex-direction: column;
        align-items: center;
        background-color: white;
        margin-bottom: 20px;
        font-size: 1.2rem;
    }
    
    .access button{
        width: 90%;
        padding: 0.7rem 0.4rem;
        background-color: hsl(207, 73%, 30%);
        color: white;
    }
    
    .profile{
        width:100%; 
        max-width: 400px; 
        min-height: 300px;
        background-color: white;
        display: flex;
        flex-direction: column;
        justify-content: space-between;
    }
    
    .profile__head{
        width: inherit;
        flex: 0.3;
        background-color: hsl(207, 73%, 30%);
        display:flex;
        align-items:center;
        justify-content: center;
    }
    
    .profile__head h4{
        font-size: 36px;
        font-weight: 400px;
        color: white;
    }
    
    .profile__details{
        width: 90%;
        margin: 0 auto;
        line-height: 35px;
        flex: 0.5;
    }
    
    .profile__details span{
        font-size: 1.2rem;
    }
    
    .label{
        color: hsl(210, 7%, 55%);
    }

> Now lets create the template for our `register_n_login` views

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's create the template for our `register_n_login` views
```

            <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
            <title>Registration and Login page</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'style.css' %}">
        </head>
    
        <body>
            <div class="wrapper">
    
                <div class="access">
                    <span>Open an account with us</span>
                    <button onclick="window.location.href='https://{APP_NAME}.hub.loginradius.com/auth.aspx?action=register&return_url=http://127.0.0.1:8000/';">
                        Register
                    </button>
                </div>
                <div class="choice">
                    <span>OR</span><br>
                    <span>If you already have account</span>
                </div>
                <div class="access">
                    <span>Log into your account</span>
                    <button onclick="window.location.href='https://{APP_NAME}.hub.loginradius.com/auth.aspx?action=login&return_url=http://127.0.0.1:8000/profile/';">
                        Login
                    </button>
                </div>
    
            </div>
        </body>
    </html>

> We used an `onclick` event on both the register and login button, which when clicked changes the windows location to the [Auth Page (IDX)](https://www.loginradius.com/docs/developer/concepts/idx) register and login page respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used an `onclick` event on both the register and login buttons, which when clicked changes the window's location to the [Auth Page (IDX)](https://www.loginradius.com/docs/developer/concepts/idx) register and login page respectively.
```

> NOTE: Don’t forget to replace the {APP_NAME} placeholder with your LoginRadius app name.

> > 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Also, in the register and login link, we replaced the {RETURN_URL} parameter with http://127.0.0.1:8000/profile/, which is the users profile page we are going to create shortly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, in the register and login link, we replaced the {RETURN_URL} parameter with http://127.0.0.1:8000/profile/, which is the user profile page we are going to create shortly.
```

Run the development server and open http://127.0.0.1:8000/, you will see a page like this:

![Register and Login page](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_06CCF8584138C77AD580AFE76E986CC1E8C4C360158F4A6548D0F9EAC304864E_1626849064162_Screenshot+48.png)

> Now when you click the register or login button your will see a page like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, when you click the register or login button, you will see a page like this:
```

![Auth page (IDX)](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_06CCF8584138C77AD580AFE76E986CC1E8C4C360158F4A6548D0F9EAC304864E_1626849029873_Screenshot+46.png)

> When LoginRadius successfully authenticates a user, it attaches an access token in the query string as a token parameter to the REDIRECT_URL.

> we are going to retrieve the user's data from the access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to retrieve the user's data from the access token.
```

## Retrieve User Data using Access Token

In this section, we are going to retrieve the authenticated user data using access token. But first we need to initialize LoingRadius SDK with your API_KEY and API_SECRET.

**Intializing LoginRadius SDK**
Create a new *config.py* file in your **radiusApp** directory.

Open your terminal and type this command:
*radiusAuth/radiusApp*

    $ type nul > config.py

Open the *config.py* file and add the following lines of code:

    from LoginRadius import LoginRadius as LR
    
    LR.API_KEY = "API_KEY"
    LR.API_SECRET = "API_SECRET"
    loginradius = LR()

Replace API_KEY and API_SECRET with your respective LoginRadius API credentials.

> Now lets create the view that will be responsible for retrieving user data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's create the view that will be responsible for retrieving user data.
```

Open the *views.py* file in your **radiusApp** directory and add the following lines of code:

    from django.shortcuts import render, redirect
    from django.http.response import HttpResponse
    from .config import loginradius
    
    def register_n_login(request):
    #...
    
    def profile(request):
    
        if request.GET.get('token'):    
            try:
                user_data = loginradius.authentication.get_profile_by_access_token(request.GET.get('token'))
            except Exception as inst:
                return HttpResponse(inst)
        else:
            return redirect('access')
    
        return render(request, 'profile.html', {'user_data':user_data})

In this code snippet, we imported the initialized LoginRadius class from the *config.py* file and also imported `redirect` and `HttpResponse` from there respective modules.
We also introduced a new function called `profile`. In this function we did the following:

> - We first checked if there is a token parameter attached to the request. If true,
> - We created a `try` and `except` block. In the `try` block we used the `authentication.get_profile_by_access_token` method to retrieve the user data from the access token and assigned it to a variable called `user_data` while in the `except` block we returned a HttpResponse of the error that occurred if the `try` block fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We first checked if there is a token parameter attached to the request.
- If true, we created a `try` and `except` block. In the `try` block, we used the `authentication.get_profile_by_access_token` method to retrieve the user data from the access token and assigned it to a variable called `user_data`; while in the `except` block, we returned a HttpResponse of the error that occurred if the `try` block fails.
```

> - If the `try` block successfully retrieved the user's data, we rendered a *profile.html* page, and also attached the `user_data` variable to the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the `try` block successfully retrieved the user's data, we rendered a *profile.html* page and also attached the `user_data` variable to the response.
```

Open your *profile.html* file and add the following HTML code:

    {% load static %}
    
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8">
            <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
            <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'style.css'%}">
            <title>Profile</title>
        </head>
    
        <body>
    
            <div class="wrapper">
                <div class="profile">
                    <div class="profile__head">
                        <h4>profile details</h4>
                    </div>
    
                    <div class="profile__details">
                        <span>
                        <span class="label">Provider: </span> {{user_data.Provider}}<br>
                        {% for i in user_data.Email %}
                            <span class="label">Email: </span>{{i.Value}}<br>
                        {% endfor %}
    
                        <span class="label">Number of login:</span> {{user_data.NoOfLogins}}
                        </span>
                    </div>
                </div>            
            </div>
    
        </body>
    </html>

> Here we displayed the Provider, Email and NoOfLogins from the `user_data`. These are just some of the data present in the `user_data`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we displayed the Provider, Email, and NoOfLogins from the `user_data`. These are just some of the data points present in the `user_data`.
```

> Now if you run your development server then register and login a user  you should see a page like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, if you run your development server, and then register and login a user, you should see a page like this:
```

![Profile page](https://paper-attachments.dropbox.com/s_06CCF8584138C77AD580AFE76E986CC1E8C4C360158F4A6548D0F9EAC304864E_1626848979749_Screenshot+51.png)

To see the entire data present in the `user_data`, you can do something like this in your *profile.html* file:

    {% load static %}
    
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8">
            <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
            <link rel="stylesheet" href="{% static 'style.css'%}">
            <title>Profile</title>
        </head>
    
        <body>
    
            {{user_data}}
    
        </body>
    </html>

## Conclusion

> In this tutorial we have looked at how we can use LoginRadius for registration and authentication in Django. We started by giving a brief introduction to LoginRadius, what it is, its benefits, and how we can get started with it, then we rounded up by building a demo application with Django were implemented registration and authentication using LoginRadius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we discussed how to use LoginRadius for registration and authentication in Django. We started by introducing LoginRadius, what it is, its benefits, and how to get started with it. Then, we illustrated building a demo application with Django and implemented registration and authentication using LoginRadius.
```

> ## Github repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**GitHub repo:** https://github.com/Tammibriggs/radiusAuth
```

> https://github.com/Tammibriggs/radiusAuth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
